                                                  * User security and triggers *


07/02/2025



* What if Jenkins user forgotten password.?

    → As a Jenkins administrator their is a provision to reset the users credentials.

      Manage Jenkins → security → users → choose user(which need to reset) → click on security → password(give password here).


   → As a administrator to change the password again you need to inform to the users saying please follow below steps in the password

        → Once logged into the user Jenkins gui, 

        → click on username(top right corner)

               eg: Arun Kumar

        → click on security then their you can change password and click on save




* What if Jenkins administrator forgotten the password..?

  → In windows os "Jenkins Folder" we can see all Jenkins information and configuration details under the path

        path: c:\programData\Jenkins\.jenkins 

  → we can configure in config.xml file (but it's very complex - don't overwrite the file)




* Jenkins File structure:

    1. .Jenkins folder : where all the configured jobs information is available

    2. secrets folder : where configured secrets are available

    3. plugins folder : where all the plugins installed manually and automatically available  

    4. nodes folder : where all the configured nodes are available

    5. logs folder: we can see the slaves if configured and tasks(logs are available)

    6. workspace folder : where all the configured jobs information is available



  → Apart from the above folders there is Jenkins configurational file Namely "config.xml" file, First take the backup of file (or) copy that file somewhere.



* Jenkins logs:

  → we can also see the Jenkins logs in Jenkins gui-jenkins logs

      path: Manage Jenkins  → status information  → system log  → All Jenkins logs(click)



* Jenkins Version :

   → we can see the Jenkins version bottom right corner in Jenkins gui and also

      path : manage Jenkins  → status information  → about jekins



* Way's to trigger Jenkins jobs.?

   → Trigger means way of running the Jenkins job

  There are 5-types (Set up automated actions that start your build based on specific events, like code changes or scheduled times)

  
    Type 1: Trigger builds remotely (e.g., from scripts)

           → Inorder to use this trigger, first we need to generate the automation token of the job.

           → Enable this option if you would like to trigger new builds by accessing a special predefined URL 

           → You'll need to provide an authorization token in the form of a string(alphanumeric) so that only those who know it would be able to remotely trigger this project's builds.
 
           → This is most useful when your Jenkins instance grants read access to this job to anonymous users

           → When that's not the case, Jenkins will reject requests sent to the trigger URL even when the correct token is specified.

           → Use the following URL to trigger build remotely: JENKINS_URL/job/hello/build?token=TOKEN_NAME



    Type 2: Build after other projects are built(upstream and down stream jobs)

            → Set up a trigger so that when some other projects finish building, a new build is scheduled for this project. This is convenient for running an extensive test after a build
     
              is complete, for example.

            → We need to pass the job name(which are configured already) under projrcts to watch tab.

                  - Trigger only if build is stable (success)

                  - Trigger even if the build is unstable (process)

                  - Trigger even if the build fails (Failed)

                  - Always trigger, even if the build is aborted (stopped in middle)




    Type 3: Build periodically

          → In the order of precedenceThis fiels followsthe syntax of cron(with minor differences) specially,each line consists of 5 fields separated by TAB or white spaces

          →     MINUTE HOUR DOM MONTH DOW
               
               - MINUTE 	Minutes within the hour (0–59)
 
               - HOUR   	The hour of the day (0–23)
 
               - DOM    	The day of the month (1–31)

               - MONTH	        The month (1–12)

               - DOW     	The day of the week (0–7) where 0 and 7 are Sunday.

          → To specify multiple values for one field, the following operators are available. In the order of precedence

     Note : Reference or practice go with the website "corntab.guru" (all small letters)




    Type 4: GitHub hook trigger for GITScm polling

         → When Jenkins receives a GitHub push hook, GitHub Plugin checks to see whether the hook came from a GitHub repository which matches the Git repository defined in SCM/Git section 

           of this job



    Type 5: Poll SCM

           → Configure Jenkins to poll changes in SCM



 * From the above 5 triggers options from we can also trigger tab's manually.